New page for ADR 0002 (#35)
ministryofjustice/hmpps-integration-api: docs/adr/0002-plantuml-diagrams-as-code.md

# 0002- Use PlantUML as our diagrams as code tool

2023-01-24

## Status

Accepted

> ## Context

Author: I've made various changes to this based on what you've said. Here's my thoughts on each of the sections.

**Context**
I've updated this so its more about 'setting the scene'. Why we needed to make the decision like you stated there, this included benefits of diagrams as code (since that decision had already been made it was part of the context).

**Decision**
This is now just about why we chose to use PlantUML over the alternatives we had investigated.

**Consequence**
The consequences, good or bad as to things that have happened as a result of this change.

Rather than generating diagrams manually, we want to generate diagrams as code. 
This allows us to store them alongside our code in Git, it also alleviates the requirement of installing various tools
on everybody's workstations to update and manage them and allows us to version control our diagrams.

We need to determine which software we want to use for diagrams as code. Research has been done on various tools such 
as [Structurizr](https://structurizr.com/) and [PlantUML](https://plantuml.com/)

## Decision

We have decided to use PlantUML for the following reasons:
- We already have some experience within the PlantUML team
- The [C4-PlantUML](https://github.com/plantuml-stdlib/C4-PlantUML#getting-started) project we'd use is actively updated

> - Changes to diagrams will be immediately re-rendered

Author: Ah yes, my mistake. So my last point. I've seen this done before where diagrams as code are automatically re-rendered when pushed to main. I meant to investigate it before I included it in the document to check the feasibility and how it's achieved. 

Removed the comment for now to avoid confusion

## Consequences

> 1. Our GitHub repo will contain some references to PlantUML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Our GitHub repository will contain diagrams and the corresponding PlantUML code to generate them. 
```

> 2. Our [Docs Site](https://ministryofjustice.github.io/hmpps-integration-api-docs/) can reference diagrams hosted in our
> main repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Our [API documentation site](https://ministryofjustice.github.io/hmpps-integration-api-docs/) can reference diagrams hosted in our
main repository.
```
